(data) Update the Ahrefs success story and add a new story about the full stack ocaml web solution (#2863)
ocaml/ocaml.org: data/success_stories/ahrefs-petabyte-crawler.md

---
title: Petabyte-Scale Web Crawling and Data Processing
logo: success-stories/ahrefs.svg
card_logo: success-stories/white/ahrefs.svg
background: /success-stories/ahrefs-bg.jpg
theme: blue

> synopsis: "Ahrefs built the world's third-largest web crawler using OCaml, processing 500 billion requests daily and indexing petabytes of web data with a lean, efficient team."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
synopsis: "Ahrefs built the world's third-largest web crawler using OCaml, indexing petabytes of web data with a lean, efficient team."
```

I'm not too sure about the 500 billion number and it sounds like we crawl so many pages (which we do not), so might be safer to drop

url: https://ahrefs.com/
priority: 2
why_ocaml_reasons:
- Performance
- Reliability
- Expressiveness
- Scalability
- Maintainability
---

## Challenge

[Ahrefs](https://ahrefs.com/) is a Singapore-based SaaS company that provides comprehensive SEO tools and marketing intelligence powered by big data. Since 2011, they've been crawling the entire web daily to maintain extensive databases of backlinks, keywords, and website analytics that help businesses with SEO strategy, competitor analysis, and content optimization. Today, they're trusted by 44% of Fortune 500 companies.

> Building and operating a web crawler at internet scale presents extraordinary challenges. Ahrefs needed to index billions of web pages continuously, process petabytes of data in real-time, and turn this massive dataset into actionable insights for thousands of customers worldwide. The technical demands are staggering: their systems must handle **500 billion backend requests per day** while maintaining **over 100PB of storage**.

Reviewer: still going on

```suggestion
Building and operating a web crawler at internet scale presents extraordinary challenges. Ahrefs needs to index billions of web pages continuously, process petabytes of data in real-time, and turn this massive dataset into actionable insights for thousands of customers worldwide. The technical demands are staggering: their systems must handle **500 billion backend requests per day** while maintaining **over 100PB of storage**.
```

Reviewer: increasing the size of storage. Dropping the exact number of requests because I'm not sure how to compute it at this point.

```suggestion
Building and operating a web crawler at internet scale presents extraordinary challenges. Ahrefs needed to index billions of web pages continuously, process petabytes of data in real-time, and turn this massive dataset into actionable insights for thousands of customers worldwide. The technical demands are staggering: their systems must handle **billions backend requests per day** while maintaining **over 700PB of storage**.
```

> As a self-funded company, Ahrefs couldn't solve these challenges by throwing unlimited resources at the problem. They needed maximum efficiency from a small team—systems that could run reliably for months without intervention, code that could be understood and maintained by a lean engineering organization, and performance that could compete with tech giants despite having a fraction of their headcount.

Reviewer: I don't know english typography well, is "team-systems" expected?

> As a self-funded company, Ahrefs couldn't solve these challenges by throwing unlimited resources at the problem. They needed maximum efficiency from a small team—systems that could run reliably for months without intervention, code that could be understood and maintained by a lean engineering organization, and performance that could compete with tech giants despite having a fraction of their headcount.

Author: ```suggestion
As a self-funded company, Ahrefs couldn't solve these challenges by throwing unlimited resources at the problem. They needed maximum efficiency from a small team — systems that could run reliably for months without intervention, code that could be understood and maintained by a lean engineering organization, and performance that could compete with tech giants despite having a fraction of their headcount.
```

The question wasn't just whether they could build a web-scale crawler, but whether they could do it sustainably with the constraints of a bootstrapped company.

## Result

> Over a decade later, Ahrefs operates one of the world's most sophisticated web crawling operations, ranking as the **third-largest web crawler globally**. Their OCaml-powered systems process **500 billion requests daily**, maintain an index of **456.5 billion pages** across **267.6 million domains**, and update metrics for **300 million pages every 24 hours**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Over a decade later, Ahrefs operates one of the world's most sophisticated web crawling operations. Their OCaml-powered systems maintains an index of **492.7 billion pages** across **500.4 million domains**.
```

I don't know if we can keep the third lagest web crawler, this isn't the case currently. Dropping the 300M part as it's specific to one tool. Dropping the 500B part as for previous parts.

The reliability of their OCaml systems is perhaps most impressive: programs written years ago continue running without surprises, requiring minimal maintenance from their engineering team. This "boring" reliability has allowed Ahrefs to focus engineering effort on building new features and capabilities rather than fighting infrastructure fires.

Their success demonstrates that OCaml can power not just technical excellence at massive scale, but sustainable business growth in highly competitive markets.

## Why OCaml
Ahrefs chose OCaml because it solved their constraint: building world-class infrastructure with limited resources.

* **Expressiveness reduces team requirements** - OCaml allowed their small team to develop crawling and data processing systems with few lines of code, essential when you can't hire armies of engineers like big tech companies.

> * **Reliability minimizes operational overhead** - Systems run for months without surprises, crucial when you can't afford large operations teams to babysit infrastructure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Expressiveness reduces team requirements** - OCaml allowed their small team to develop crawling and data processing systems with few lines of code.
* **Reliability minimizes operational overhead** - Systems run for months without surprises.
```

dropping the negative motivations, it's not about what can't be done but what it allows

> * **Native performance handles web scale** - Compilation to native code provided the performance needed for processing 500 billion requests daily without requiring expensive hardware optimizations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Native performance handles web scale** - Compilation to native code provided the performance needed for processing billions requests daily.
```

* **Type safety prevents data disasters** - When processing petabytes of evolving web data, catching format issues at compile time rather than in production saves hours of debugging and prevents costly system failures.

> * **Language philosophy matches business model** - OCaml's expressiveness made it economical to create specialized, efficient systems tailored to their exact requirements rather than adapting bloated generic solutions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Language philosophy matches business model** - OCaml's expressiveness made it economical to create specialized, efficient systems tailored to their exact requirements. The maintainers of the compiler put on a strong emphasis on making a language matching needs of industrial users.
```

## Solution

Ahrefs built their crawling infrastructure around OCaml's strengths, creating a distributed system that balances performance, reliability, and maintainability. **[OCaml](https://ocaml.org/)** serves as the primary language for all crawling and data processing systems, compiled natively for maximum performance across their **4000+ servers**.

> The architecture treats data consistency as paramount. Using **[ATD (Adjustable Type Definitions)](https://github.com/ahrefs/atd)** to define shared data structures, they ensure type safety throughout their processing pipeline—from initial web crawling through to final data storage. This approach catches schema mismatches at compile time rather than runtime, crucial when processing billions of pages daily.

Author: ```suggestion
Their architecture treats data consistency as paramount. Defining shared data structures (using **[ATD (Adjustable Type Definitions)](https://github.com/ahrefs/atd)**, and now moving to [melange-json](https://github.com/melange-community/melange-json)), they ensure type safety throughout their processing pipeline — from initial web crawling to final data storage. This approach catches schema mismatches at compile time rather than at runtime, crucial when processing billions of pages daily.
```

> The architecture treats data consistency as paramount. Using **[ATD (Adjustable Type Definitions)](https://github.com/ahrefs/atd)** to define shared data structures, they ensure type safety throughout their processing pipeline—from initial web crawling through to final data storage. This approach catches schema mismatches at compile time rather than runtime, crucial when processing billions of pages daily.

Reviewer: moving from atd to melange-json

> Their storage layer combines **[ClickHouse](https://clickhouse.com/)** for analytical workloads, **[MySQL](https://www.mysql.com/)** for transactional data, and **[Elasticsearch](https://www.elastic.co/)** for search functionality, all orchestrated on **[AWS](https://aws.amazon.com/)**. The key insight was designing these systems to work together seamlessly through shared OCaml types rather than complex API layers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Their storage layer combines **[ClickHouse](https://clickhouse.com/)**, **[MySQL](https://www.mysql.com/)**, **[Elasticsearch](https://www.elastic.co/)**. The key insight was designing these systems to work together seamlessly through shared OCaml types rather than complex API layers.
```

The result is a unified system where improvements to crawling algorithms, data processing pipelines, or storage efficiency can be implemented quickly and deployed confidently across their entire infrastructure.

## Lessons Learned

Ahrefs' experience building web-scale infrastructure in OCaml offers valuable insights:

* **Reliability pays compound interest**: OCaml's "boring" stability means systems built years ago still run without surprises, freeing engineering time for new capabilities rather than maintenance.
* **Types scale better than tests**: At petabyte scale, compile-time guarantees about data consistency prevent entire classes of runtime failures that would be catastrophic at this volume.
* **Expressiveness enables specialization**: OCaml's high-level abstractions made it economical to build highly specialized systems rather than adapting generic frameworks to their unique requirements.
* **Small teams can compete with giants**: The right language choice allowed Ahrefs to build infrastructure that competes with tech giants despite having a fraction of their resources.

> * **Performance and maintainability aren't mutually exclusive**: OCaml's combination of native compilation and high-level abstractions delivered both the performance needed for web scale and the clarity needed for long-term maintenance.

Reviewer: kind of a repetition of the why ocaml section

## Open Source

Ahrefs supports the OCaml ecosystem through contributions that benefit infrastructure and data processing applications:

- **[Ahrefs DevKit](https://github.com/ahrefs/devkit):** Tools and utilities for building distributed applications.
- **[OCaml Community Tools](https://github.com/ocaml-community):** Contributions to widely used infrastructure tools like `ocurl` and `ocaml-mariadb`.

> - **[ATD](https://github.com/ahrefs/atd):** Schema definition language for cross-platform data serialization.

Reviewer: we can probably find more interesting links

Author: yes, that would be great

Author: removed open source links section on petabyte crawler post - the full stack web post has an interesting section of open source project links
